---
layout: post
title: "02. Shell Tools and Scripting"
author: "mommaum"
tags: ["Missing Semester in CS"]
---

# WIL 

``` zsh
# command

diff # 두 파일의 다른 부분을 반환
```

### Shell Script

쉘은 자체 스크립팅 언어를 제공한다. 변수, 함수, 흐름 제어 등을 이용하여 복잡한 작업을 단순하게 만들 수 있다.

### Short-circuiting

쉘의 논리 연산자 `&&` 와 `||` 는 첫 번째 조건으로 전체 표현식의 값이 정해지면 바로 실행을 종료한다.

``` zsh
true || echo "not printed"
# || 두 번째 피연산자가 무엇이든 true로 판정되므로 echo가 출력되지 않음

false && echo "not printed" 
# && 두 번쨰 피연산자가 무엇이든 false로 판정되므로 echo가 출력되지 않음
```
### STDERR

STDIN과 STDERR은 둘 다 기본적으로 터미널에 출력되지만 이 둘은 분리되어 있는 출력이기 때문에 서로 다른 곳으로 보낼 수 있다.

``` zsh
./some_file.sh > output.log 2> err.log 
# STDIN 생성시 output.log에 내용 저장, STDERR 발생시 err.log에 내용 저장
```

### Shebang

커널이 어떤 인터프리터를 사용해서 파일을 실행할지를 알려주는 주석이다. 시스템간 호환성을 위해서 env를 통해 작성하기를 추천한다.

``` zsh
#!/usr/local/bin/python
#!/usr/bin/env python
```

### Tools

``` zsh
some_command --help # 옵션 출력
man # 매뉴얼 출력
find # 재귀적으로 파일 검색
history # 명령어 사용 내역 
```

# 문제 풀이

1. Read man ls and write an ls command that lists files in the following manner
- Includes all files, including hidden files
- Sizes are listed in human readable format (e.g. 454M instead of 454279954)
- Files are ordered by recency
- Output is colorized

``` zsh
ls -laht --color
```

2. Write bash functions `marco` and `polo` that do the following. Whenever you execute `marco` the current working directory should be saved in some manner, then when you execute `polo`, no matter what directory you are in, `polo` should `cd` you back to the directory where you executed `marco`. For ease of debugging you can write the code in a file `marco.sh` and (re)load the definitions to your shell by executing `source marco.sh`.

``` zsh
# marco.sh

#!/usr/bin/env zsh
marco () {
  export MARCO=$(pwd) # export 명령어로 현재 경로를 환경변수로 내보냄
}

# polo.sh

#!/usr/bin/env zsh
polo () {
  cd "$MARCO" # ""를 이용해 환경변수의 값에 접근
}
```

3. Say you have a command that fails rarely. In order to debug it you need to capture its output but it can be time consuming to get a failure run. Write a bash script that runs the following script until it fails and captures its standard output and error streams to files and prints everything at the end. Bonus points if you can also report how many runs it took for the script to fail.

``` zsh
#!/usr/bin/env bash

count=0

# $?가 0인 경우 (정상 실행) count를 증가시키고 실행결과를 log 파일에 저장
while [[ $? -eq 0 ]]; 
do
	count=$((count+1))
	./example.sh >> output.log 2>&1
done

# $?가 0이 아니여서 while 문을 벗어나면 결과 출력
cat output.log
echo "$count runs it took for the script to fail."
```

4. As we covered in the lecture find ’s -exec can be very powerful for performing operations over the files we are searching for. However, what if we want to do something with all the files, like creating a zip file? As you have seen so far commands will take input from both arguments and STDIN. When piping commands, we are connecting STDOUT to STDIN, but some commands like tar take inputs from arguments. To bridge this disconnect there’s the xargs command which will execute a command using STDIN as arguments. For example `ls | xargs rm` will delete the files in the current directory.
   
   Your task is to write a command that recursively finds all HTML files in the folder and makes a zip with them. Note that your command should work even if the files have spaces (hint: check -d flag for xargs ).
   
   If you’re on macOS, note that the default BSD find is different from the one included in GNU coreutils. You can use -print0 on find and the -0 flag on xargs . As a macOS user, you should be aware that command-line utilities shipped with macOS may differ from the GNU counterparts; you can install the GNU versions if you like by using brew.

``` zsh
# for macOS
find . -name '*.html' -type f -print0 | xargs -0 tar -czf target.tar.gz 
```

5. (Advanced) Write a command or script to recursively find the most recently modified file in a directory. More generally, can you list all files by recency?

``` zsh
# for macOS
find . -name '*.html' -type f -print0 | xargs -0 ls -lt | head -n1
```

