---
layout: post
title: "The Shell"
author: "mommaum"
tags: "Missing Semester in CS"
---

# WIL about this topic

``` zsh
# command

date  # 현재 날짜와 시각을 출력
echo  # 인수를 출력
which # 셸이 프로그램을 검색하는 디렉토리를 출력
pwd   # 현재 디렉토리 출력
cd    # 디렉토리 이동
ls    # 디렉토리 현황 출력
mv    # 파일 이름 변경 또는 이동
cp    # 파일 복사
rm    # 파일 삭제
mkdir # 디렉토리 생성
rmdir # 디렉토리 삭제
curl  # 네트워크 통신
grep  # 문자열 검색 (정규표현식 사용 가능)
sudo  # rootuser 권한으로 실행
man   # 프로그램 매뉴얼 출력

ls -l # flag 입력가능
echo hello # 인자는 공백으로 구분된다
mkdir "my folder" # 문자열 내에 공백을 사용하고 싶으면 ""를 사용한다

.     # 현재 디렉토리
..    # 부모 디렉토리
```


### What is Shell?


### Shebang

- 어떤 인터프리터를 사용할 지 알려주는 것

``` zsh
#!
```


### Redirection

프로그램을 실행하는 것 이외에도, 셸은 여러가지 자체적인 기능을 제공한다. 

``` zsh
echo hello > hello.txt #
missing:~$ ls -l / | tail -n1 #
```


# Exercises

1. For this course, you need to be using a Unix shell like Bash or ZSH. If you are on Linux or macOS, you don’t have to do anything special. If you are on Windows, you need to make sure you are not running cmd.exe or PowerShell; you can use Windows Subsystem for Linux or a Linux virtual machine to use Unix-style command-line tools. To make sure you’re running an appropriate shell, you can try the command echo $SHELL . If it says something like /bin/bash or /usr/bin/zsh , that means you’re running the right program.

2. Create a new directory called missing under /tmp .

3. Look up the touch program. The man program is your friend.

4. Use touch to create a new file called semester in missing .

5. Write the following into that file, one line at a time:

6. Try to execute the file, i.e. type the path to the script ( ./semester ) into your shell and press enter. Understand why it doesn’t work by consulting the output of ls (hint: look at the permission bits of the file).

7. Run the command by explicitly starting the sh interpreter, and giving it the file semester as the first argument, i.e. sh semester . Why does this work, while ./semester didn’t?

8. Look up the chmod program (e.g. use man chmod ).

9. Use chmod to make it possible to run the command ./semester rather

10. Use | and > to write the “last modified” date output by semester into a file called last-modified.txt in your home directory.

11. Write a command that reads out your laptop battery’s power level or your desktop machine’s CPU temperature from /sys . Note: if you’re a macOS user, your OS doesn’t have sysfs, so you can skip this exercise.